Add Best Practice: Use Convention Plugins (#32973)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/bp_general.adoc

=== Tags
`#structuring-builds`

[[use_convention_plugins]]
== Use Convention Plugins for Common Build Logic

> You should use convention plugins to encapsulate and reuse common build logic across multiple build files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use convention plugins to encapsulate and reuse shared build logic across multiple projects in your build.
```

=== Explanation

> Convention plugins help you avoid duplicating build logic across multiple build files by moving shared configuration into a reusable plugin. This approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of duplicating configuration across multiple `build.gradle.kts` files, you can move common logic into a reusable plugin. This approach offers several benefits:
```

> * Reduces duplication and makes build scripts more maintainable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reduces duplication: Shared logic lives in one place, making it easier to maintain.
```

> * Centralizes common configuration, making it easier to update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Centralizes configuration: Updates to build behavior can be made in one file instead of many.
```

> * Makes build files cleaner and more focused on project-specific configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Keeps build files clean: Project build files stay focused on project-specific configuration.
```

> * Enables better IDE support and validation for your build logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improves IDE support: IDEs can better understand and validate build logic when structured as plugins.
```

> Although the initial setup of a convention plugin requires some effort, it significantly simplifies maintenance and addition of new build logic in the long run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While setting up convention plugins takes some initial effort, it pays off by simplifying maintenance, improving consistency, and scaling better as your codebase grows.
```

=== Example

==== Don't Do This

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/kotlin/avoid-this",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=avoid-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/groovy/avoid-this",files="build.gradle[tags=avoid-this]"]
====

> <1> Common compiler settings duplicated across multiple build files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Common compiler settings repeated across multiple projects
```

> <2> Test configuration that needs to be maintained in multiple places

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Shared test configuration that must be maintained in multiple places
```

> <3> Common dependencies that could be centralized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Common dependencies that could be managed centrally
```

==== Do This Instead

> Create a convention plugin in included build:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a convention plugin in `buildSrc`:
```

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/gradle/gradle/pull/33081 What is gradle’s official stance on this? The messaging seems muddled especially after Herding Elephants

Reviewer 3: These 2 items should be aligned.  I think this item should use a `build-logic` included build for the convention plugins.

Author: Ok, I'll rework this and update the message.

Author: Or if decision on #33081 is on hold, I think it is logical to wait here for resolution as well, isn't it?

Author: I've decided to switch to build-logic already.  We may keep this best practice on hold until we resolve #33081 . Switching back to buildSrc shouldn't be a problem.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, sorry we can't give any clarity about this yet.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/kotlin/buildSrc/src/main/kotlin",files="my.java-common-conventions.gradle.kts[tags=do-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/groovy/buildSrc/src/main/groovy",files="my.java-common-conventions.gradle[tags=do-this]"]
====

> And apply it in your build files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And apply the plugin in any build file where you want to use the shared logic:
```

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/kotlin/do-this",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=do-this]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/bestPractices/useConventionPlugins/groovy/do-this",files="build.gradle[tags=do-this]"]
====

> <1> Apply the convention plugin to get all common configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Apply the convention plugin to inherit all shared build logic
```

> <2> Focus on project-specific configuration only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Keeps the build file focused on project-specific configuration
```

<<plugins.adoc#sec:using_plugins,Using Plugins>>

=== Tags
`#structuring-builds`

[[use_convention_plugins]]
== Use Convention Plugins for Common Build Logic

Use convention plugins to encapsulate and reuse shared build logic across multiple projects in your build.

=== Explanation

> Instead of duplicating configuration across multiple `build.gradle.kts` files, you can move common logic into a reusable plugin. This approach offers several benefits:

Author: `build.gradle.kts` 

Maybe I should use "build script" instead?

Reviewer 3: Yes, better to not seem to limit this to Kotlin builds.

<<plugins.adoc#sec:using_plugins,Using Plugins>>

=== Tags
`#structuring-builds`

[[use_convention_plugins]]
== Use Convention Plugins for Common Build Logic

Use convention plugins to encapsulate and reuse shared build logic across multiple projects in your build.

=== Explanation

Instead of duplicating configuration across multiple `build.gradle.kts` files, you can move common logic into a reusable plugin. This approach offers several benefits:

* Reduces duplication: Shared logic lives in one place, making it easier to maintain.

> Centralizes configuration: Updates to build behavior can be made in one file instead of many.

Reviewer 4: ❓ Looks like there is a missing bullet here
